

Our work is closely related to the literature that has looked at the impact of free or low-cost digital distribution of information goods on demand for physical alternatives. This work has largely studied the effects of piracy on the markets for movies and music (See Smith and Zentner (2016) for a review). A number of papers have looked at the effect of illegal online distribution in the form of piracy on sales of legal music and movies. The majority of this work looking at the impact of free distribution via file sharing on music sales finds a negative effect (Bounie et al. (2006); Rob and Waldfogel (2007); Zentner (2005, 2006); Rob and Waldfogel (2006) see Danaher et al. (2014) and Oberholzer-Gee and Strumpf (2010) for a review), although some work on the movie industry (Bai and Waldfogel, 2012; Danaher et al., 2010) suggests a less pronounced effect. More recently, scholars have also looked at legal forms of cheap, digital distribution such as online streaming and found that it too tends to depress sales in other channels (Yu et al., 2018; Aguiar and Waldfogel, 2018). In these industries, the extant literature does not tend to find that digital distribution stimulates demand for physical products, perhaps because digital distribution does not explicitly improve the information environment.

Insights from the literature on music and movies might be less relevant to the market for books given one key difference: Digitization has the potential to allow for the scanning and searching of the entire text of the book. This feature permits a much deeper match between content and a customer’s preferences. Given that match quality between content and readers is quite important in the market for books (Ellison and Ellison, 2018), a full-text search and digital distribution technology that matches readers to books can in fact increase demand, even if books are distributed online for free. Demand would increase by helping readers locate books that they would otherwise not know about or want to read. This effect can increase sales of physical copies, especially if readers find it cumbersome to read lower quality scans in an online venue (such as Google Books) or in cases where readers do not have access to the full text through the digital medium (such as through “snippet” access).

Scholars have studied aspects of the market for books such as price dispersion (Ellison and Ellison, 2018), comparing product variety in online and offline formats (Brynjolfsson et al., 2003), substitution be- tween used and new books (Ghose et al., 2006) or platforms for books access (Baye et al., 2015), but the impact of digital distribution on physical sales and especially the role of full-text search are less well under- stood. The few studies that do look at the impact of digital distribution on physical sales in the publishingindustry study contexts where digital distribution is provided without the added benefit of full-text search. For example, Chen et al. (2019) consider the impact of e-book distribution on physical book sales, finding no effect. Similarly, Forman et al. (2009) find that digital and physical distribution channels for books are largely substitutes when considering Amazon.com. A key question that motivates our paper remains unan- swered: What is the effect of digital distribution – combined with full-text search technology – on physical demand in the market for books?

Answering our research questions is important, not only because it helps make theoretical progress on the literature on cross-channel substitution, but also because of its industry and policy relevance. The net revenue of the book publishing industry in the US in 2019 was more than thrice as large as the music rev- enues ($25.9B as compared to $7.3B; AAP 2020 and RIAA 2020, respectively). Further, the advent of the internet, platforms like Amazon.com and mass digitization projects like Google Books have presented numerous questions about balancing physical sales, digital distribution (via e-books) and mass digital dis- tribution (via projects like Google Books) for firms in the publishing industry. In fact, legal debates have analyzed the specific case we focus on (the Google Books project) and debated whether it increases or de- creases sales (Samuelson, 2009). Our research provides quasi-experimental evidence to policy-makers and legal scholars, who have largely relied on anecdotal and theoretical data up to this point.

2.2 Theoretical Argument

How might digital distribution increase the sales of physical books? For end customers, the question of
whether the digitization of books increases or reduces demand for physical works depends on two counter-
acting forces. The first is the substitution effect of digital distribution as a competitor for existing, physical
products as studied in the literature. Some consumers who would otherwise consume physical copies will
switch to digital versions, driving the substitution effect. This is likely to happen when a consumer’s search
costs are low, and when she has a taste for digital consumption, and it may be less relevant when books are 

However, Google Books might stimulate a discovery effect due to increased awareness and searchability (see appendix Figure D.1.) Specifically, some consumers may start consuming the physical version for the first time, after digitization lowers search costs for books. This is likely to happen if they were made aware of a book through Google Books’ search engine and prefer to purchase physical copies rather than read online. This second mass of consumers will drive the discovery effect. The net effect of digitization is ambiguous and depends on the magnitude of these two margins.

The tradeoff between substitution and discovery further differs for different margins of books and con- sumers. Notably, for popular books, already well-known to consumers (e.g. The Wealth of Nations), the substitution effect is likely to dominate. On the other hand, obscure books are likely to benefit from discov- ery, and unlikely to face the costs of substitution. The effect of Google Books on demand should therefore be more positive for less popular books. In addition, if consumers discover a particular author through a dig- itized copy, they might also seek out other books by the same author, even if these have not been digitized. Therefore, digitization might lead to an increase in physical sales for non-digitized works of a digitized author as well.

Further, when the discovery channel is muted, the positive effects on demand should reduce or disappear altogether. For instance, for consumers within Harvard, who already benefit from access to search technol- ogy (through Harvard’s librarians and internal catalog system) the substitution effect is likely to dominate the discovery effect. Therefore, when considering loans within Harvard, the effect of digital distribution is likely much smaller, and even negative. On the flip side, when a digital platform provides access only to the search function, but not the entire text of the book (as is common with “snippet view”), we expect the positive effect of demand to remain strong. Our empirical analysis sheds light on these predictions as well.

Digital distribution might also shape the supply side. Specifically, imagine that publishers publish any content that nets them positive revenues as long these are greater than the fixed costs of locating and licens- ing materials of interest to their audience. Digitization lowers search costs and helps publishers identify interesting content that typically would be unknown to them, making it more likely that they will produce a new physical edition for a book. These dynamics are especially likely to be at play when the underlying con- tent is not in print (and publishers face no competition) or when it is in the public domain and free to license. Similar dynamics could apply to in-copyright content if there is an active market to license out-of-print or less popular content for existing license holders, albeit to a lesser extent. At the same time, digitization could also increase competition or lower prices, which might reduce publishers’ profits per edition, lowering the likelihood that they will increase the supply of new editions. If the competitive or price effects are minimal, we expect that digital provision will increase the supply of new editions, although this remains an empirical question. Further, any positive effects on supply should be especially relevant for small and independent publishers, who face higher costs of locating content since they do not have an existing catalog or network to source such material.

To summarize, our theoretical predictions are threefold. First, digital distribution allows consumers to search for topics they are interested in and discover works previously unknown to them. Second, if the digital medium offers a poor substitute for a physical book, demand for physical works is more likely to increase. Finally, digital provision will also allow publishers (especially small and independent ones) to identify new material and introduce new editions.
Our theoretical arguments speak to past work on the impact of digital distribution on demand and supply for physical products. On the demand side, our arguments about the role of digital distribution in enhanc- ing consumer discovery add to work on the effects of digital technology on the diversity of consumption patterns (Brynjolfsson et al., 2006; Kumar et al., 2014; Holtz et al., 2020). This work shows that digital distribution channels tend to change consumption patterns by helping consumers discover more novel and niche products. Related work has looked at the complementary effects of news content sampled via social networks, which drives traffic to news websites by helping consumers discover specific news articles (Chiou and Tucker, 2017; Sismeiro and Mahmood, 2018). However, this literature focuses on how digital channels change consumption patterns and has not explored how online access coupled with access to digital search and discovery tools affects demand for and supply of the same product in physical form. Our theoretical and empirical analyses extend this work in this direction.

On the supply side, past work has looked at other channels through which access to existing work improves the supply of new content. Most notably, the literature in copyright and digitization shows that free access to past work can often stimulate follow-on production of knowledge (Watson, 2017; Reimers, 2019; Heald, 2007). For example, the (copyright-related) digitization of magazine content improved the quality of content on Wikipedia (Nagaraj, 2018). Further, existing literature also suggests that digital access can be particularly helpful for smaller players and stimulate entry (Nagaraj, 2020; Zhang, 2018). However, whether or not digital distribution itself can improve the supply of physical products and whether it benefits smaller or larger players on this margin remains unexamined.