  Literature Review
  
  The motivation for this project comes from literature which examines the effect of free or low cost digital distribution of information goods on the demand on their physical counterparts. (Smith and Zentners 2016 review(1). 
  The breadth of resources on this topic investigate the impact of illegal downloads. The bulk of that research covers file sharing on music sales (2), while others studies look at the impact on the film industry(3). Recently, researchers have incorporated legal forms of cheap digital media distribution such as online streaming and found that it negativly shifted demand of more expensive substitutes(4). In these industries, the literature overall tends to find that digital distribution negativly shifts demand for the physical counterpart, which is perhaps because digital distribution does not improve the information environment.
  There are several key differences to low cost digital distribution for print media. Digitized print media can be searched by the entire text, which enables a heightened compatability between the content and the users query. This enhanced match quality can increase demand for the physical resource.(5) Specifically, readers are able to find books that they would not want to read or not even know existed, then aquired physical copies. These Consumers who want a more user friendly format than the low quality reader buy the physical book, entering the market.
  Another method of acquisition is checking the book out form the library. Books that may have been left on the shelf are now being checked out and read thanks to the reaserch utility digital formats. However scanning books could also have the opposite effect on the demand for them. A book that’s easily available on google books could save a potential consumers a trip the book store or library, or the wait for the online order to deliver. Depending on what type of book the consumer seeks, it could even be more advantageous to have it in a digital format. Large textbooks for example, offer more utility if book itself can be queried for specific information, not to mention forgone cost of the physical version.
  Since the theoretical argument remains ambiguous, an empirical study into the causal effect is warranted. When designing a causal infrence research question, model specification is key. The most common specification is Two Way Fixed Effects, which compares outcomes for observations with the treatment to observations without the treatment. It is a simple model design which is flexible to various controls, but has a critical flaw. In circumstances when there are multiple treatment groups, Two Way Fixed Effects is specified in a way which causes observations which have been treated to be compared to newly treated observations. This contaminates the leading and lagging indicators when other assumptions are imposed like parallel trends and limited anticipation of the treatment.(6) The remedy for this issue is found in the Callaway Sant'anna (7) specification, which bins the treated observations into time treated cohorts. This separates out the treatment effects and prevents the overlapping observed in the Two Way Fixed Effects.
  
  Effects Table Analysis
  For the baseline TWFE (column 1), the Average Treatment Effect on the Treated (ATT) of a book getting scanned into google books on log inflated loans was -.0518 and significant at the 99% level. Put differently, the causal effect of scanning a book on checkouts was 5% fewer checkouts from Harvard libraries. This ATT from the overall population shows that books available on google books act as substitutes for their physical counterparts. It could indicate either that the superior convenience and/or cheaper cost of low-cost digital information goods exceeds the value lost from the unwieldy digital format. 
  When the population is segmented by faculty group membership, the post-scanned causal effect becomes more pronounced while retaining its significance at the 99% level. This is due to the extraction of the positive ATT for scanned books checked out by faculty. The ATT implies that faculty members use google books more as an information source for later physical acquisition. From this, it follows that the negative checkout rates are driven by non-faculty members who are using google books as a substitute. 
  This effect is further decomposed among the student groups (column 3) while retaining their 95% levels of significance. Among masters students and undergrads the usage of google books is similar to that of faculty members. For these populations which have positive ATTs, google books is used as a resource finder as opposed to a format for using those resources. Doctoral students on the other hand, exhibit behaviors which generally use google books as a format for consuming those information resources rather than a research tool. Why doctoral students diverge from their other student counterparts is not clear. One possible narrative to explain why doctoral students exhibit this behavior is a preference held by the group at large to use the cheap digital format and forgoes the opportunity cost of going to the library where the physical resource resides. This tracks with the increased responsibilities usually associated with doctoral studies compared to other education levels, such as Research Assistance, teaching undergraduate courses, tutoring, etc., which could lead to a more acute scarcity of time.
  Perhaps the most interesting ATT for the third model is the base post scanned causal effect. Here the magnitude of the baseline ATT a closer to the magnitude in the faculty/non-faculty than the non-grouped models. Since the final model groups students together, faculty members are classified as non-students. We learned in the second model that faculty members use google books as a reference resource, yet even with that effect in the base post scanned ATT, there is still a significant negative ATT. From this we can infer that for non-faculty non-students are the main drivers of google books as a platform for viewing digital resources substituting away from physical mediums. The reason for this is up for speculation. One possible story is that many of these non-student/non-faculty library patrons face increased barriers to receive credentials to use these libraries, leading to reduced checkout rates for these groups. If getting a Harvard library card is more difficult for non-student/non-faculty members, it makes sense for them to switch to google books if the resource they need is available on the platform, forgoing an increased opportunity cost compared with students or faculty members.

Conclusion
  Expansions on the two way fixed effect models can be achieved through additional data on group membership. We found that nonstudent/nonfaculty library patrons were primarily responsible for the reduced checkout rates for treated books. One alternative angle is decomposing that groups to see if it is driven by some subgroup. This will be constrained by what information is collected by the library on these patrons as well as what they are allowed to share. This study could also be applied to non university libraries, which will have different patron population compositions. If non student/non faculty ATT remains consistent, this could cause even more drastically reduced checkout rates, since public libraries serve the general public rather than academic populations.
  Another alternate approach is to compare checkoput rates at other universites. Are the group spesific trends consistent between university populations, or are negative ATTs for doctoral checkoput rates a unique quality of Harvards doctoral students? Do faculty members use google books as a refrencing resource in other universities, or is the technology not used in this way. Faculty age could be taken into account as well. Perhaps there is a decreased ATT due to google books being a relativly new refrencing tool which is employeed at different rates for different age demographics.
  Being a platform, google books has a network effect. A network effect is the dynamic in which the utility of a good increases as the use of that good increases. In this scenario, as more books are scanned, more people will defer to google books as the information resource, forgoing other options like libraries or book stores. It may be worth exploring if the total number of books scanned into google books depresses checkout rates/purchase rates for non treated books. This could have a negative effect on the information environment as it would cause non scanned books with greater compatiblity to the querying user going undiscovered in favor of less compatible scanned books. 
  

Bibliography

1.	Smith, M. D. and A. Zentner (2016, January). Internet effects on retail markets. Handbook on the Economics of Retailing and Distribution. ISBN: 9781783477388 Publisher: Edward Elgar Publishing Section: Hand- book on the Economics of Retailing and Distribution

2.	Bounie, D., M. Bourreau, and P. Waelbroeck (2006). Piracy and the Demand for Films: Analysis of Piracy Behavior in French Universities. Review of Economic Research on Copyright Issues 3(2), 15–27.

3.	Rob, R. and J. Waldfogel (2007). Piracy on the Silver Screen. The Journal of Industrial  Economics 55(3), 379–395.

4.	Aguiar, L. and J. Waldfogel (2018, March). As streaming reaches flood stage, does it stimulate or depress music sales? International Journal of Industrial Organization 57, 278–307.

5.	Ellison, G. and S. F. Ellison (2018, January). Match Quality, Search, and the Internet Market for Used Books. Technical Report w24197, National Bureau of Economic Research.

6.	Liyang Sun and Sarah Abraham (2020). Estimating Dynamic Treatment Effects in Event Studies with Heterogeneous Treatment Effects, Journal of Econometrics

7.	Brantly Callawaya and  Pedro H.C.Sant’Anna(2020) Difference-in-Differences with multiple time periods, Journal of Econometrics
